README.md, before:

# Flux Blockchain Explorer

A modern, real-time blockchain explorer for the Flux network. Built with Next.js 14 and powered by FluxIndexer API v1.

![Flux Explorer](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Production%20Ready-brightgreen)
![Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-14-black)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5-blue)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Ready-blue)

## ️ Architecture

FluxExplorer is a **3-component system** providing complete blockchain exploration capabilities:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     Flux Blockchain                          │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
          ┌──────────┴───────────┐
          │                      │
          v                      v
┌──────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐
│   FluxIndexer    │◄───┤   PostgreSQL     │
│   (API v1)       │───►│   (Database)     │
└────────┬─────────┘    └──────────────────┘
         │
         │ RESTful API
         │ /api/v1/*
         │
         v
┌──────────────────┐
│  Flux Explorer   │
│  (Next.js 14)    │
│  Web Interface   │
└──────────────────┘
```

### Components

1. **PostgreSQL** - Database for blockchain data
2. **FluxIndexer** - Custom indexer with RESTful API v1
3. **Flux Explorer** - Web Interface

##  Features

### Core Features
-  **Smart Search** - Automatically detects blocks, transactions, and addresses
-  **Network Statistics** - Real-time metrics including circulating supply, block time, and transaction count
-  **Block Explorer** - Browse blocks with full transaction details
-  **Transaction Viewer** - Detailed transaction info with FluxNode tier detection (STRATUS/NIMBUS/CUMULUS)
-  **Address Tracker** - Monitor balances and transaction history with CSV export
- ️ **Block Rewards** - Live visualization of mining rewards and FluxNode payouts
-  **Rich List** - Top Flux holders with balance distribution analytics
-  **Responsive Design** - Seamless experience on all devices
-  **Modern UI** - Clean, professional interface with dark theme

### Advanced Features
-  **FluxIndexer API v1** - RESTful API with Flux-specific endpoints
-  **Docker Compose Deployment** - Complete stack deployment with one command
-  **Real-time Updates** - Live blockchain data synchronization
-  **SQLite Price Cache** - Persistent caching of historical cryptocurrency prices
-  **Flux PoN Support** - Full support for Flux Proof-of-Node consensus

##  Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Docker & Docker Compose (recommended)
- Or: Node.js 18.x+ (for local development)

### Fresh Production Deployment (One-Shot)

For deploying on a fresh VPS with clean blockchain sync:

### Production Deployment (Docker Compose)

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Sikbik/flux-blockchain-explorer.git
cd flux-blockchain-explorer

# Configure environment
cp .env.production.example .env.production
# Edit .env.production with your settings

# Start the complete stack (PostgreSQL + FluxIndexer + Explorer)
# Zcash parameters (~900MB) will be automatically downloaded on first run
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml up -d

# View logs
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml logs -f

# Access the explorer
open http://127.0.0.1:42067  # FluxIndexer API
open http://127.0.0.1:42069  # Explorer UI
```

**Note**: Zcash parameters are now stored in a Docker volume and automatically downloaded. No manual host setup required!

### Local Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Sikbik/flux-blockchain-explorer.git
cd flux-blockchain-explorer/flux-explorer

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Configure environment
cp .env.example .env.local
# Edit .env.local to point to your FluxIndexer instance

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

Open [http://127.0.0.1:42069](http://127.0.0.1:42069) to view the explorer.

## ️ Tech Stack

### Blockchain Infrastructure
- **FluxIndexer** - Custom blockchain indexer with RESTful API v1
- **PostgreSQL** - High-performance blockchain data storage
- **Fluxd** - Flux daemon (bundled with FluxIndexer)

### Frontend Stack
- **Framework:** [Next.js 14](https://nextjs.org/) (App Router)
- **Language:** [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- **Styling:** [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) + [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- **Data Fetching:** [TanStack React Query](https://tanstack.com/query)
- **HTTP Client:** [ky](https://github.com/sindresorhus/ky)
- **Charts:** [Recharts](https://recharts.org/)
- **Database:** [better-sqlite3](https://github.com/WiseLibs/better-sqlite3) (for price caching)

##  Project Structure

```
flux-blockchain-explorer/
├── flux-indexer/                 # FluxIndexer service (daemon + API)
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── api/                 # Express handlers for /api/v1/*
│   │   ├── indexer/             # Sync engine and block processing
│   │   ├── database/            # PostgreSQL connection + optimizer
│   │   ├── rpc/                 # Flux RPC client wrappers
│   │   ├── scripts/             # Debug/inspection utilities
│   │   ├── types/               # Shared TypeScript types
│   │   └── index.ts             # Service entry point
│   ├── frontend/                # Bundled status dashboard (static export)
│   ├── Dockerfile               # Multi-stage build (fluxd + indexer)
│   ├── docker-compose.yml       # Local development stack
│   └── README.md                # FluxIndexer documentation
├── flux-explorer/               # Next.js application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── app/
│   │   │   ├── page.tsx         # Landing page
│   │   │   ├── block/[hash]/    # Block detail route
│   │   │   ├── blocks/          # Latest blocks listing
│   │   │   ├── tx/[txid]/       # Transaction pages
│   │   │   ├── address/[address]/ # Address detail pages
│   │   │   ├── rich-list/       # Rich list UI
│   │   │   └── api/             # Server-side API routes
│   │   │       ├── blocks/      # Cached block lookups
│   │   │       ├── cache/stats  # Cache diagnostics
│   │   │       ├── health/      # Health probe
│   │   │       ├── prices/batch # Price cache lookups
│   │   │       ├── rich-list/   # Rich list loader
│   │   │       └── supply/      # CoinMarketCap proxy
│   │   ├── components/          # UI building blocks
│   │   ├── lib/                 # API clients, helpers, price cache
│   │   └── types/               # Explorer-specific types
│   ├── data/                    # SQLite price cache (runtime)
│   ├── Dockerfile               # Production build
│   └── README.md                # Explorer documentation
├── docker-compose.production.yml # Full stack deployment
├── flux-spec.json               # FluxOS multi-component spec template
└── README.md                    # This file
```

##  FluxIndexer API v1

FluxIndexer provides a RESTful API for blockchain data access:

### Core Endpoints

- `GET /api/v1/status` - Indexer and daemon status
- `GET /api/v1/sync` - Synchronization progress
- `GET /api/v1/blocks` - Recent block summaries
- `GET /api/v1/blocks/latest` - Latest block snapshots (batched counts)
- `GET /api/v1/blocks/:heightOrHash` - Block details
- `GET /api/v1/transactions/:txid` - Transaction details
- `GET /api/v1/addresses/:address` - Address information
- `GET /api/v1/addresses/:address/utxos` - Address UTXOs
- `GET /api/v1/addresses/:address/transactions` - Address transaction history

### Flux-Specific Endpoints

- `GET /api/v1/richlist` - Top Flux holders
- `GET /api/v1/supply` - Circulating/max supply snapshot
- `GET /api/v1/producers` - FluxNode producer leaderboard
- `GET /api/v1/producers/:identifier` - Block producer information
- `GET /api/v1/nodes` - FluxNode list
- `GET /api/v1/nodes/:ip` - Detailed FluxNode status
- `GET /api/v1/network` - Network statistics
- `GET /api/v1/mempool` - Mempool information
- `GET /api/v1/stats/dashboard` - Aggregated explorer statistics

See [flux-indexer/README.md](flux-indexer/README.md) for complete API documentation.

##  Key Features

### FluxNode Tier Detection
Automatically identifies FluxNode types based on block reward amounts:
- **FOUNDATION** - Green badge
- **STRATUS** - Blue badge
- **NIMBUS** - Purple badge
- **CUMULUS** - Pink badge
- **MINER** - Yellow badge

### Real-time Updates
Components refresh automatically with configurable polling intervals based on deployment mode (local vs. production).

### Smart Search
Automatically detects search type:
- Block heights (numbers like `2009100`)
- Block hashes (64-char hex)
- Transaction IDs (64-char hex)
- Addresses (t1/t3 prefixes)

### Network Statistics
Real-time metrics:
- Current block height
- Circulating & max supply
- Average block time (calculated from last 100 blocks)
- 24-hour transaction count (cached for performance)
- FluxNode count & network statistics

### Rich List Analytics
- Top Flux holders
- Balance distribution charts
- Address rankings with percentages
- Paginated view with search
- Real-time updates from FluxIndexer

##  Environment Variables

### Explorer Configuration

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL` | FluxIndexer API endpoint | `http://127.0.0.1:42067` |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_MODE` | API mode (`local`, `public`, `auto`) | `local` |

### Production Stack (.env.production)

```bash
# PostgreSQL Configuration
POSTGRES_USER=fluxindexer
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
POSTGRES_DB=flux_blockchain

# FluxIndexer Configuration
DB_HOST=postgres
DB_PORT=5432
DB_USER=fluxindexer
DB_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
DB_NAME=flux_blockchain

# Explorer Configuration
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://indexer:42067
```

##  Documentation

### Getting Started
- **[README.md](README.md)** - This file (overview and quick start)
- **[.env.production.example](.env.production.example)** - Environment variable reference

### FluxIndexer
- **[flux-indexer/README.md](flux-indexer/README.md)** - FluxIndexer documentation
- **[flux-indexer/DEPLOYMENT.md](flux-indexer/DEPLOYMENT.md)** - Production deployment guide
- **[flux-indexer/PERFORMANCE_OPTIMIZATION.md](flux-indexer/PERFORMANCE_OPTIMIZATION.md)** - Performance tuning guide

### Explorer
- **[flux-explorer/README.md](flux-explorer/README.md)** - Explorer-specific documentation
- **[flux-explorer/DEPLOYMENT.md](flux-explorer/DEPLOYMENT.md)** - Explorer deployment guide
- **[flux-explorer/PRICE_DATA_SETUP.md](flux-explorer/PRICE_DATA_SETUP.md)** - Price data configuration

##  Docker Deployment

### Complete Stack Deployment

```bash
# Start all components (PostgreSQL + FluxIndexer + Explorer)
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml up -d

# View status
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml ps

# View logs
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml logs -f indexer
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml logs -f explorer

# Stop all components
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml down
```

### Individual Component Management

```bash
# Rebuild and restart just the indexer
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml up -d --build indexer

# Rebuild and restart just the explorer
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml up -d --build explorer

# Restart PostgreSQL
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml restart postgres
```

##  Security

-  **Zero vulnerabilities** in dependencies (scanned regularly)
-  **No hardcoded secrets** - all config via environment variables
-  **Docker security** - containers run as non-root users
-  **API validation** - all inputs validated and sanitized
-  **Rate limiting** - intelligent caching prevents API abuse

##  Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines

- Follow TypeScript best practices
- Write clean, documented code
- Test with local FluxIndexer instance
- Update documentation for new features
- Run `npm run lint` before committing

##  Performance

### Resource Requirements

**PostgreSQL Database:**
- CPU: 2 cores
- RAM: 20 GB
- Storage: 400 GB (~260GB current, grows over time)

**FluxIndexer (with Fluxd):**
- CPU: 4 cores
- RAM: 4 GB
- Storage: 200 GB (~45GB blockchain + params)

**Explorer Frontend:**
- CPU: 1 core
- RAM: 2 GB
- Storage: 20 GB

### System Performance
- **Indexer Performance**: Optimized blockchain synchronization
- **Docker Images**:
  - FluxIndexer: ~1.2GB (includes Fluxd + dependencies)
  - Explorer: ~400MB (Next.js production build)
- **Database**: PostgreSQL with optimized indexes
- **Caching**: Intelligent server-side caching for expensive queries
- **Request Coalescing**: DDoS protection with 90-95% load reduction

##  License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

##  Acknowledgments

- Built for the [Flux](https://runonflux.io/) blockchain network
- UI components from [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- Icons from [Lucide](https://lucide.dev/)

##  Links

- **Flux Website:** https://runonflux.io
- **Flux Documentation:** https://docs.runonflux.io
- **Official Flux Explorer:** https://explorer.runonflux.io
- **Flux GitHub:** https://github.com/RunOnFlux

Commit message:

Improve transaction export with date range selection and UTC timezone handling
Replace transaction count selector with calendar-based date range picker to support
accurate tax reporting and data export for specific time periods. Add UTC timezone
normalization to align with blockchain timestamps, preventing timezone offset issues
that caused incorrect date boundaries.

Backend changes:
- Implement dynamic API pagination limits (10,000 for date range exports vs 100 for
  regular pagination) to support large exports without performance impact
- Add fromTimestamp/toTimestamp filtering to address transactions endpoint
- Include filteredTotal count in API response for accurate progress tracking

Frontend changes:
- Replace count-based export with date range picker (Last 30 days, Last year, All time, etc.)
- Add UTC date normalization helpers to prevent timezone offset bugs
- Implement chunked price fetching with progress updates (50-75% range)
- Add "Clear" button for intuitive date range reset
- Add calendar, date-range-picker, and popover UI components

Docker/Flux deployment:
- Configure price-cache-data volume to persist SQLite database across rebuilds
- Update flux-spec.json with containerData mount point for price cache persistence
- Add deployment documentation for Docker Compose and FluxOS configurations

This enables users to export transactions by specific date ranges (e.g., 2024 tax year)
with accurate UTC timestamps and prevents re-downloading 35,000+ historical price
data points on every container rebuild.

README.md, after:

# Flux Blockchain Explorer

A modern, real-time blockchain explorer for the Flux network. Built with Next.js 14 and powered by FluxIndexer API v1.

![Flux Explorer](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Production%20Ready-brightgreen)
![Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-14-black)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5-blue)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Ready-blue)

## ️ Architecture

FluxExplorer is a **3-component system** providing complete blockchain exploration capabilities:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     Flux Blockchain                          │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
          ┌──────────┴───────────┐
          │                      │
          v                      v
┌──────────────────┐    ┌──────────────────┐
│   FluxIndexer    │◄───┤   PostgreSQL     │
│   (API v1)       │───►│   (Database)     │
└────────┬─────────┘    └──────────────────┘
         │
         │ RESTful API
         │ /api/v1/*
         │
         v
┌──────────────────┐
│  Flux Explorer   │
│  (Next.js 14)    │
│  Web Interface   │
└──────────────────┘
```

### Components

1. **PostgreSQL** - Database for blockchain data
2. **FluxIndexer** - Custom indexer with RESTful API v1
3. **Flux Explorer** - Web Interface

##  Features

### Core Features
-  **Smart Search** - Automatically detects blocks, transactions, and addresses
-  **Network Statistics** - Real-time metrics including circulating supply, block time, and transaction count
-  **Block Explorer** - Browse blocks with full transaction details
-  **Transaction Viewer** - Detailed transaction info with FluxNode tier detection (STRATUS/NIMBUS/CUMULUS)
-  **Address Tracker** - Monitor balances and transaction history with CSV export
- ️ **Block Rewards** - Live visualization of mining rewards and FluxNode payouts
-  **Rich List** - Top Flux holders with balance distribution analytics
-  **Responsive Design** - Seamless experience on all devices
-  **Modern UI** - Clean, professional interface with dark theme

### Advanced Features
-  **FluxIndexer API v1** - RESTful API with Flux-specific endpoints
-  **Docker Compose Deployment** - Complete stack deployment with one command
-  **Real-time Updates** - Live blockchain data synchronization
-  **SQLite Price Cache** - Persistent caching of historical cryptocurrency prices
-  **Flux PoN Support** - Full support for Flux Proof-of-Node consensus

##  Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Docker & Docker Compose (recommended)
- Or: Node.js 18.x+ (for local development)

### Fresh Production Deployment (One-Shot)

For deploying on a fresh VPS with clean blockchain sync:

### Production Deployment (Docker Compose)

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Sikbik/flux-blockchain-explorer.git
cd flux-blockchain-explorer

# Configure environment
cp .env.production.example .env.production
# Edit .env.production with your settings

# Start the complete stack (PostgreSQL + FluxIndexer + Explorer)
# Zcash parameters (~900MB) will be automatically downloaded on first run
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml up -d

# View logs
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml logs -f

# Access the explorer
open http://127.0.0.1:42067  # FluxIndexer API
open http://127.0.0.1:42069  # Explorer UI
```

**Note**: Zcash parameters are now stored in a Docker volume and automatically downloaded. No manual host setup required!

### Local Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Sikbik/flux-blockchain-explorer.git
cd flux-blockchain-explorer/flux-explorer

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Configure environment
cp .env.example .env.local
# Edit .env.local to point to your FluxIndexer instance

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

Open [http://127.0.0.1:42069](http://127.0.0.1:42069) to view the explorer.

## ️ Tech Stack

### Blockchain Infrastructure
- **FluxIndexer** - Custom blockchain indexer with RESTful API v1
- **PostgreSQL** - High-performance blockchain data storage
- **Fluxd** - Flux daemon (bundled with FluxIndexer)

### Frontend Stack
- **Framework:** [Next.js 14](https://nextjs.org/) (App Router)
- **Language:** [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- **Styling:** [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) + [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- **Data Fetching:** [TanStack React Query](https://tanstack.com/query)
- **HTTP Client:** [ky](https://github.com/sindresorhus/ky)
- **Charts:** [Recharts](https://recharts.org/)
- **Database:** [better-sqlite3](https://github.com/WiseLibs/better-sqlite3) (for price caching)

##  Project Structure

```
flux-blockchain-explorer/
├── flux-indexer/                 # FluxIndexer service (daemon + API)
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── api/                 # Express handlers for /api/v1/*
│   │   ├── indexer/             # Sync engine and block processing
│   │   ├── database/            # PostgreSQL connection + optimizer
│   │   ├── rpc/                 # Flux RPC client wrappers
│   │   ├── scripts/             # Debug/inspection utilities
│   │   ├── types/               # Shared TypeScript types
│   │   └── index.ts             # Service entry point
│   ├── frontend/                # Bundled status dashboard (static export)
│   ├── Dockerfile               # Multi-stage build (fluxd + indexer)
│   ├── docker-compose.yml       # Local development stack
│   └── README.md                # FluxIndexer documentation
├── flux-explorer/               # Next.js application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── app/
│   │   │   ├── page.tsx         # Landing page
│   │   │   ├── block/[hash]/    # Block detail route
│   │   │   ├── blocks/          # Latest blocks listing
│   │   │   ├── tx/[txid]/       # Transaction pages
│   │   │   ├── address/[address]/ # Address detail pages
│   │   │   ├── rich-list/       # Rich list UI
│   │   │   └── api/             # Server-side API routes
│   │   │       ├── blocks/      # Cached block lookups
│   │   │       ├── cache/stats  # Cache diagnostics
│   │   │       ├── health/      # Health probe
│   │   │       ├── prices/batch # Price cache lookups
│   │   │       ├── rich-list/   # Rich list loader
│   │   │       └── supply/      # CoinMarketCap proxy
│   │   ├── components/          # UI building blocks
│   │   ├── lib/                 # API clients, helpers, price cache
│   │   └── types/               # Explorer-specific types
│   ├── data/                    # SQLite price cache (runtime)
│   ├── Dockerfile               # Production build
│   └── README.md                # Explorer documentation
├── docker-compose.production.yml # Full stack deployment
├── flux-spec.json               # FluxOS multi-component spec template
└── README.md                    # This file
```

##  FluxIndexer API v1

FluxIndexer provides a RESTful API for blockchain data access:

### Core Endpoints

- `GET /api/v1/status` - Indexer and daemon status
- `GET /api/v1/sync` - Synchronization progress
- `GET /api/v1/blocks` - Recent block summaries
- `GET /api/v1/blocks/latest` - Latest block snapshots (batched counts)
- `GET /api/v1/blocks/:heightOrHash` - Block details
- `GET /api/v1/transactions/:txid` - Transaction details
- `GET /api/v1/addresses/:address` - Address information
- `GET /api/v1/addresses/:address/utxos` - Address UTXOs
- `GET /api/v1/addresses/:address/transactions` - Address transaction history

### Flux-Specific Endpoints

- `GET /api/v1/richlist` - Top Flux holders
- `GET /api/v1/supply` - Circulating/max supply snapshot
- `GET /api/v1/producers` - FluxNode producer leaderboard
- `GET /api/v1/producers/:identifier` - Block producer information
- `GET /api/v1/nodes` - FluxNode list
- `GET /api/v1/nodes/:ip` - Detailed FluxNode status
- `GET /api/v1/network` - Network statistics
- `GET /api/v1/mempool` - Mempool information
- `GET /api/v1/stats/dashboard` - Aggregated explorer statistics

See [flux-indexer/README.md](flux-indexer/README.md) for complete API documentation.

##  Key Features

### FluxNode Tier Detection
Automatically identifies FluxNode types based on block reward amounts:
- **FOUNDATION** - Green badge
- **STRATUS** - Blue badge
- **NIMBUS** - Purple badge
- **CUMULUS** - Pink badge
- **MINER** - Yellow badge

### Real-time Updates
Components refresh automatically with configurable polling intervals based on deployment mode (local vs. production).

### Smart Search
Automatically detects search type:
- Block heights (numbers like `2009100`)
- Block hashes (64-char hex)
- Transaction IDs (64-char hex)
- Addresses (t1/t3 prefixes)

### Network Statistics
Real-time metrics:
- Current block height
- Circulating & max supply
- Average block time (calculated from last 100 blocks)
- 24-hour transaction count (cached for performance)
- FluxNode count & network statistics

### Rich List Analytics
- Top Flux holders
- Balance distribution charts
- Address rankings with percentages
- Paginated view with search
- Real-time updates from FluxIndexer

##  Environment Variables

### Explorer Configuration

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL` | FluxIndexer API endpoint | `http://127.0.0.1:42067` |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_MODE` | API mode (`local`, `public`, `auto`) | `local` |

### Production Stack (.env.production)

```bash
# PostgreSQL Configuration
POSTGRES_USER=fluxindexer
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
POSTGRES_DB=flux_blockchain

# FluxIndexer Configuration
DB_HOST=postgres
DB_PORT=5432
DB_USER=fluxindexer
DB_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
DB_NAME=flux_blockchain

# Explorer Configuration
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://indexer:42067
```

##  Documentation

### Getting Started
- **[README.md](README.md)** - This file (overview and quick start)
- **[.env.production.example](.env.production.example)** - Environment variable reference

### FluxIndexer
- **[flux-indexer/README.md](flux-indexer/README.md)** - FluxIndexer documentation
- **[flux-indexer/DEPLOYMENT.md](flux-indexer/DEPLOYMENT.md)** - Production deployment guide
- **[flux-indexer/PERFORMANCE_OPTIMIZATION.md](flux-indexer/PERFORMANCE_OPTIMIZATION.md)** - Performance tuning guide

### Explorer
- **[flux-explorer/README.md](flux-explorer/README.md)** - Explorer-specific documentation
- **[flux-explorer/DEPLOYMENT.md](flux-explorer/DEPLOYMENT.md)** - Explorer deployment guide
- **[flux-explorer/PRICE_DATA_SETUP.md](flux-explorer/PRICE_DATA_SETUP.md)** - Price data configuration

##  Docker Deployment

### Complete Stack Deployment

```bash
# Start all components (PostgreSQL + FluxIndexer + Explorer)
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml up -d

# View status
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml ps

# View logs
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml logs -f indexer
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml logs -f explorer

# Stop all components
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml down
```

**Important**: The production docker-compose file includes a `price-cache-data` volume for the explorer service. This persists the SQLite price cache database (~50MB with 35,000+ historical price points) across container rebuilds. Without this volume, the price data would need to be re-downloaded on every deployment (5-10 minute process).

### Individual Component Management

```bash
# Rebuild and restart just the indexer
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml up -d --build indexer

# Rebuild and restart just the explorer
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml up -d --build explorer

# Restart PostgreSQL
docker compose -f docker-compose.production.yml restart postgres
```

##  Security

-  **Zero vulnerabilities** in dependencies (scanned regularly)
-  **No hardcoded secrets** - all config via environment variables
-  **Docker security** - containers run as non-root users
-  **API validation** - all inputs validated and sanitized
-  **Rate limiting** - intelligent caching prevents API abuse

##  Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines

- Follow TypeScript best practices
- Write clean, documented code
- Test with local FluxIndexer instance
- Update documentation for new features
- Run `npm run lint` before committing

##  Performance

### Resource Requirements

**PostgreSQL Database:**
- CPU: 2 cores
- RAM: 20 GB
- Storage: 400 GB (~260GB current, grows over time)

**FluxIndexer (with Fluxd):**
- CPU: 4 cores
- RAM: 4 GB
- Storage: 200 GB (~45GB blockchain + params)

**Explorer Frontend:**
- CPU: 1 core
- RAM: 2 GB
- Storage: 20 GB

### System Performance
- **Indexer Performance**: Optimized blockchain synchronization
- **Docker Images**:
  - FluxIndexer: ~1.2GB (includes Fluxd + dependencies)
  - Explorer: ~400MB (Next.js production build)
- **Database**: PostgreSQL with optimized indexes
- **Caching**: Intelligent server-side caching for expensive queries
- **Request Coalescing**: DDoS protection with 90-95% load reduction

##  License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

##  Acknowledgments

- Built for the [Flux](https://runonflux.io/) blockchain network
- UI components from [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- Icons from [Lucide](https://lucide.dev/)

##  Links

- **Flux Website:** https://runonflux.io
- **Flux Documentation:** https://docs.runonflux.io
- **Official Flux Explorer:** https://explorer.runonflux.io
- **Flux GitHub:** https://github.com/RunOnFlux
